---

layout: post

title: Questions & Solutions of LPTHW-044-学习笔记

date: 2017-10-23

author: Zd

catalog: true

categories: Python

tags:
    - Python
    - LPTHW
    - LearnPythontheHardWay; 

---

# Learn Python the Hard Way-044-学习笔记
## Inherit 

### 1. Origin Code

In the LPTHW-044, the content is about the basis of inherit & 包含 for class. Here's my thoughts on inherit. Hopefully there isn't anything wrong with it.

Let's learn the origin code first.

```
class Other(object):
	    
    def override(self):
        print "Other override()"
	    
    def implicit(self):
        print "Other implicit()"
	    
    def altered(self):
        print "Other altered()"
	
	
class Child(object):
	    
    def __init__(self):
        self.other = Other()
	    
    def implicit(self):
        self.other.implicit()
	
    def override(self):
        self.other.override()
        print "Child override()"
	        
    def altered(self):
        print "Child altered before Other altered()"
        self.other.altered()
        print "Child altered after Other altered()"
	
son = Child()

son.override()
son.implicit()
son.altered()
```

### 2. Knowledge Involved

Except for the ways of Implicity & Override & Altered to use the methods and functions of the outside classes, there is another way to achieve that goal as shown above, which calls for methods and functions from the designated class.

In this case, the class `Child(object)` doesn't inherit from the class `Other(object)`, that is it isnot-a class `Other()`. As shown, class `Child(object)` inherits from a special class named `object`.

In class `Child(object)`, we call directly the functions from class `Other()` with blocks of codes, such as `self.other = Other()` in the function `__init__()` of `Child()`, and `self.other.override()` in the function `override(self)` of `Child()`.

Look at the codes below. They are the basic progresses to achieve that goal.

#### 2.1. Build class Other()

```
class Other(object):
    def override(self):
        print "Other override()"
```

Codes above, a function named `override()` has been built within class `Other(object)`.

#### 2.2. Build class Child()

```
class Child(object):
    def __init__(self):
        self.other = Other()
```

Above, a special function named `__init__()` has been built within class `Child()`. In the function, `self.other = Other()` means to assign the class `Other()` to `self.other`.

Mentions: the difference between the initials of `other` and `Other`.

#### 2.3. Build the function in class Child()

Then we build a function named `child_override()` in the class `Child()`. 

Mention again! The names such as `child_override` matter nothing. It's just an example.

```
def child_override(self):
    self.other.override()
```

In the block above, `self.other` is equal to the name of class `Other()`. Put it simple, it calls the class `Other()`.

`self.other.override()` is equal to `Other().override()`( well, the better way is `Other.override()`. I just want to put it extremely clear so that Any misunderstanding won't come up.)

The codes above can achieve the same goal of calling the function from class `Other()`.

#### 2.4. Instantiation & others

```
son = Child()
son.child_override()

```

Codes above are the executing blocks. The process of the first line `son = Child()` is called `instantiation(实例化)`， and the variable(变量) named `son` is called the object of class `Child()`.

`son` is a specific case of class `Child()`, and it has all the functions and methods of `Child()`. Imagine that, Tom and Ketty are both children, they are just two cases for children. All the normal children can walk, talk, smile, and so on, and Tom and Ketty can do as well.

With the basic understanding of `instantiation`, `son.child_override()` is more easier for us to take in.

Again, put it simple, `son.child_override()` is equal to `Child().child_override()`.

`son.child_override()` will trigger the process of function `child_override()`.

Then the line `self.other.override()` will be executed. As explained above, `self.other.override()` is `Other().override()`, so that the line `print "Other override()"` will be executed sequently.

Let's put the codes into a text file named son.py, and run it.

The output is as below exactly.

```
Other override()
Child override()
Other implicit()
Child altered before Other altered()
Other altered()
Child altered after Other altered()
```

---

It looks like the calling of the Module.

Actually it does. In the most cases, the purpose of the explanations & statements are created by the predecessors with the purposes of making the principles and codes more comprehensible for us to catch the profound meaning. Put it another way, we shall not be confused by the jargons, because we make them, rather not be controlled by them.

According to Zed, the author of LPTHW, if we can't grasp the concept of class & inherit well right now, surely we could reagard them as modules temporarily.

---


### Q1: Why is there no `__init__(self)` built within the class Other() ? what can `__init__(self)` help?

### A1: I DON'T KNOW YET!!! Sad story...I try to figure it out:)


## Reference
《笨办法学Python（第三版）》-44.继承与包含